so I have been using this M1 Max MacBook
Pro for the past 3 years since it came
out and it's been great I have felt
absolutely no compulsion to upgrade
since haven't needed to it's funny most
of my work is pretty light but
occasionally I will have to edit a video
on the go which is then when you know
the extra horsepower and the screen and
everything about this comes in handy and
it's great if I didn't have to do that
ever I would just have like an air or a
surface laptop something like that but
that range of work is why this has been
great for me and it's been awesome so
[Music]
far so Along Comes This M4 generation of
MacBook Pros and it's the first
generation that I have actually been
tempted to maybe upgrade to you know
they stacked a couple of the right
upgrades in the right places for things
that actually make a difference to me so
let's just get right into it nuts and
bolts cuz the first big pillar is
performance and the main reason why this
new laptop matters at all is that it's
got the new generation of M4 chips
inside and we all know the leap from
Intel chips to apple cic chips for M1
was generational but since then it's
been a sort of more reasonable
incremental upgrade going from M1 to M2
then M3 and then M4 so I think it's
pretty obvious that nobody with an M2 or
M3 needs to upgrade but there's been
enough improvements now stacking up upon
each other from M1 to M4 that the
numbers are now starting to get kind of
interesting so just to set the stage
this laptop that I've been using is the
M1 Max maxed out basically the best you
could get at the time 64 gigs of of
unified memory on this system and this
unit I've been testing of the M4 Max is
also maxed out it's the best you can get
now it's 128 gigs of faster unified
memory but the cores are all better fast
stronger on the new one 3 nomers versus
546 gigs per second of memory bandwidth
versus 400 just the hardware
improvements to get to M4 Max are
clearly there so to keep the Apples to
Apples comparison going Apple in their
own presentation said up to 2.2 times
faster CPU performance than M1 Max and
1.9 times faster GPU performance so
we're looking at around twice as fast
and the synthetic benchmarks I've run
back this up I got over 4,000 in
geekbench 6 CPU single core which is the
highest single core score ever in a Mac
by a while and the multicore score was
incredible too tops the chart and then
GPU has improved a lot to the point
where it's bumping up against M2 Ultra
not M2 Max M2 Ultra chips the one that's
currently in the Mac Pro so it's pretty
clear that on paper yeah these M4 chips
are blazing they're incredible um but
that's just on paper what about in real
life what about real workflow stuff so
on YouTube you might have noticed a lot
of the benchmarking and real world stuff
that you see is video editing benchmarks
just because that's the most intensive
thing most YouTubers do on their
computers it's the most intensive thing
I do um but yeah that's that's what's
going to drive my purchase decision so
that's the first thing I looked into so
my own Benchmark is literally loading up
a video project in Final Cut Pro moving
things around messing with Clips cutting
effects tracking and then of course
export times this project here is a mix
of 8K red raw footage and action camera
footage with comped graphics and smaller
video files from the Snapchat glasses
and not only did this laptop open and
flip through Final Cut faster than any
other machine I've ever used but it also
exported the final video roughly twice
as fast as my M1 Max laptop which is
really exciting for me so pretty prime
example of the performance unlocking
something new is uh Final Cup Pro 11
just came out and I've been messing with
it for a little bit and there's a new
headlining feature called magnetic mask
and my theory is that it's taking pretty
heavy advantage of Apple silicon
specifically the neural engine because
it's AI powered but I have to prove it
so so previously to cut a subject out of
a background in a video it it was this
painstaking process called rotoscoping
where you're essentially manually
drawing the mask for every single frame
now this one works even better than some
plugins I've used like M Roto Ai and
it's even faster basically all you do is
click the subject and sort of refine
your selection and then once you're good
to go you just analyze forward for the
entire clip and just let it do its thing
and it just continues for the whole clip
so I ran through this on the M4 Max I
ran through this on the M1 Max but I did
some other machines as well and the
results well the M1 Max was able to pull
this off in 2 minutes 56 seconds the M4
Max got it down to 2 minutes and 13
seconds but then M2 Ultra got it down to
a minute and a half but then the Intel
zon Mac Pro super expensive with the
Dual Radeon Pro gpus took 6 minutes for
the same 45 second clip here so the leap
is crazy and it just keeps getting
better I'm thinking M4 Ultra is going to
be as a video editor pretty sick but of
course you might not be a video editor
you might be something else you might be
a photographer I just watched Tyler
stallman's video on his M4 Max laptop
it's really good the second half of his
video he does a lot of testing against
the M1 generation with Lightroom and
resolve and not only does it continue to
crush M1 Max but sometimes it actually
gets close to or beats the newest Mac
Studio with M2 Ultra which is pretty
insane so I'll link his whole video
below it's really good now obviously we
expect Mac Studio and Mac Pro to
eventually get their own M4 generation
updates with the M4 Ultra chip I'm sure
that'll be immense but even so with this
it's crazy to see apple silicon is still
improving fast enough that this new
laptop chip is outperforming some of the
desktop chips from earlier years of
Apple silicon there's a bunch of other
real world benchmarks out there I'll
link some more below that are really
good but I think the bottom line from my
testing and from other tests that I've
watched and read is yeah there there is
now a significant bump up in performance
from M1 to M4 not just 30 or 40% but
like 200% which is pretty crazy but that
by itself might not be enough to
convince you to upgrade so there's more
luckily several other things are updated
about this laptop as well so first of
all this laptop is space black as you
may have noticed which the M1 generation
didn't have but it's not exactly new
it's actually had the same two colors as
M3 space black or silver I do love me
some space black but anyone who has one
already knows it looks really good new
but then it kind of collects
fingerprints and starts to wear over
time still the best solution I found is
a skin over a case just adds that little
bit of scratch protection you'll never
see fingerprints again so I'll leave a
link below to channel sponsor dbrands
glitch skin if you want to check that
out it's much more interesting than
black or silver but there is another
visual Improvement here too and you've
probably noticed it watching this video
it looks so good that is the nanotexture
display option it is new and I love it
it's it's incredible and the thing is I
have slight reservations about how it
might wear over time but on a laptop
like this it it just looks so good Nano
texture started out as a $1,000 option
on the pro display xdr and this is the
hardest one to recommend like it's
stupid expensive and then it's also it's
so delicate to maintain it just picked
up fingerprints so easily you'd have to
have the right low pile soft microfiber
to actually clean it like it's tough I
wouldn't recommend it to most but it
seems like it improved since then
because now it's a $300 option on the
studio display that a lot of people have
then they offered it as a $100 option on
the iPad Pro which obviously that's
something people are touching constantly
with their fingers and we haven't really
seen too many issues with it so I think
on a laptop like this like if it can be
jeez if it can be like maintenance
painfree then it feels like a kind of a
no-brainer like this is my favorite
option on this laptop like you're going
to take it all over the place and all
sorts of different lighting and just the
way this matte finish just eats
Reflections and completely removes any
lighting environment ractions from
anything from an office building to a
coffee shop to an airplane with a window
next to you like it's actually
incredible it's awesome all laptops
should have something like this it's a
100 bucks more than the glossy version
for the MacBook Pro and I'll take it
every time the fact that this is new to
the M4 Generation by itself honestly is
is very compelling to me so then the
only other big thing that's new here is
Thunderbolt 5 which it's funny it's kind
of uh overrated and underrated at the
same time so the outgoing laptops all
have perfectly great very fast
Thunderbolt 4 USBC ports love that
almost every new high-end laptop has
that um these new ones here getting
Thunderbolt 5 which a lot of other
machines don't have yet and actually the
the base 14-in MacBook Pro gets one more
Port too which is great so now they all
have the three Thunderbolt 5 ports it
feels a bit underrated maybe because it
is so new and it's in so few laptops but
it is actually a genuine capability
Improvement like we love more bandwidth
we love faster I/O you can do three 6K
displays from this laptop instead of two
so that's awesome but there are so few
Thunderbolt 5 accessories out right now
and the ones that do start to come out
you'll also notice are uh pretty
expensive so my favorite accessory in
the world right now for example I think
is the Samsung X5 the Thunderbolt 3
drive it's incredible 2800 megabyte per
second read speeds they don't sell them
anymore but you can get a nearly
equivalent 2 tbyte sandis drive for
about 275 bucks right then there's the
new OWC Thunderbolt 5 drive and it'll
read and write at 6,000 megabytes per
second damn but it's also 2 tabt for 400
bucks so you know as a video editor
who's passing around really large files
like I'm going to want one of these at
some point I'm going to wait for more
options it's it's going to be great but
I think the point of Thunderbolt 5 on
these computers is that ecosystem of
Thunderbolt 5 accessories drives docks
interfaces that's going to be built up
over time is great for future proofing
the thing but it doesn't actually affect
most people right away unless you're
literally going to plug in three Pro
displays right off the bat so then
there's a couple other little smaller
things you know the the new center stage
ultrawide webcam that will follow you
around I actually think it looks better
which is nice the battery life is also
rated to be slightly better thanks to
the m4's improved efficiency so I think
this is mostly going to come into effect
under lighter workloads but you love to
see it same size battery better battery
life and then the screen has a higher
SDR Max brightness of a thousand nits
over the previous I think it was five or
600 so if you're in a brighter space
whether you have Nano texture or not
everything is more readable and it turns
out Apple quietly updated all these
MacBook Pros to quantum dot displays and
didn't tell anybody they're probably
still on their way to OLED but yeah
these improvements to quantum dot and
efficiency and especially responsiveness
it might just be confirmation bias but I
feel like the responsiveness is actually
noticeable to my eye so you might not
upgrade just for the performance
improvements but they are pretty good
you might not upgrade just for the new
nanotexture finish but it is really good
and you you definitely won't upgrade
just for Thunderbolt 5 or just for the
slightly brighter display or the ultra
wide webcam but I think all of these
things stacked on top of each other
combined
is I think you you actually can justify
an upgrade this year if you are
regularly pushing this laptop to its
limits you can justify this Improvement
or at least that's what I'm telling
myself M1 Max is going to be perfectly
fine for another year though no question
about that I also think it's really
interesting that we basically have apple
intelligence to thank for all of these
new Macs basically having a new minimum
of 16 gigs of unified memory it just
makes all of the base Macs feel like a
better deal now and the Mac Mini is
amazing and there's more to come we know
there's going to be more M4 chips on the
horizon but is's a really good new
laptop thanks for watching catch you in
the next one peace
[Music]